#Music Theory
-------------

This program will dynamically create a color-coded interactive grid to 
help explore the relation between notes in different interval cycles in 
various temperaments. It is inspired by and similar to a grid/array first 
constructed by George Perle based on the 12-tone series of notes used in 
western music. This version adds new features and interactivity.

Each note is colored with a hue which corresponds to it's position in the 
octave. The note '0' corresponds with 'A' 440hz is is colored red. The next 
note '1' is orange and corresponds with 'A#' 466.16hz, '2' is yellow and 
corresponds with 'B' 493.88hz etc.

Clicking on a note will produce a pitch generated by a synthesizer which 
corresponds to the note clicked. The hues and the synthesized notes aim 
to develop an understnding of how the notes/intervals are related to 
each other.

The temperament of the array can be changed from any temperament between 
3 TET (3-tone equal temperament) and 24 TET. The default is 12 TET, which 
is the temperament used in western music and instruments.

For more information on the music theory, visit the wikipedia page on 
[interval cycle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interval_cycle).

#Code Structure
---------------

script.js contains the core code for the program. tableMaker(equalTemp) 
is a function which takes the selected temperament (equalTemp) as an 
argument and constructs an array with the corresponding number of tones. 
This is accomplished by using nested for() loops. One for() loop creates 
appends a "td" note to the end of the current row and assigns a noteID, 
while the other creates the beginning of a new row. The inner for() loop 
also checks to see if the current note is equal to the current temperament. 
If it is, it sets the current note to 0. After the for() loops, the 
colorize() function is called.

The tableDeleter() function deletes the current note array, making room 
for a new note array. 

The armSynth() function plays note which is clicked on. It contains the 
algorithms to calculate the pitch of the clicked note. It also contains 
code which makes it possible to hold down the mouse and drag it over the 
table, continuously emitting whichever note the mouse is over.

colorize() takes the value of a note and colors it with a corresponding 
hue.

newTemp() sets a new temperament, then calls on tableDeleter(), 
tableMaker() and armSynth().

$(document).ready() calls on tableMaker for the first time to render the 
default 12 TET table. It also initializes referencePitchHz to set the 
refernce pitch to 440Hz and initializes referencePitchN to 49 to be the 
49th note, as well as initializing the synthesizer.

#List of files
--------------

	*index.html: displays the contentt including the interval 
		cycles grid
	*stylesheet.css: contains the styles for index.html
	*script.js: contains the code for constructing the grid, and 
		synthesizing the notes
	*README.md: this readme file

Best viewed on Google Chrome, 1920x1080 resolution

Most of the code was written March 2016.

#List of Changes
----------------
9/5/2017 - Edit README.md to attribute theory to proper person